# WASM Service

Standalone API service for running WebAssembly (or WASM) modules generated by
[Coherent Spark][coherent-site].

## Disclaimer

The underlying content of this project comprises a sample service (**not** a
product) that demonstrates how to run WASM modules once _sparkified_. The codebase
should serve as a reference for developers who wish to integrate WASM modules into
their own Node applications.

## Getting started

This documentation assumes that you are a developer and familiar with Coherent
Spark. Otherwise, visit the [User Guide][user-guide] site to learn more about it.

Spark enables some powerful features for your Excel models. Among them is the
ability to convert them to web assembly modules. That is, once an Excel model
is _sparkified_, Spark generates a WASM representation of that model that you can
later download and use in your own application independently.

Yes, that's right... the sky is the limit!

The following steps will guide you through the process of running the `wasm-service`
and executing that WASM module within your own application.

## Running the service

There are two ways to run this service:

- via Docker
- or using Node on your local machine (or on [remote server](docs/DEPLOYMENT.md))

Choose the one that best suits your needs. Refer to the [Developer Guide](docs/DEVELOPER.md)
for more technical details.

### Running the service locally

This API service is built with [Node](https://nodejs.org) and [Express][expressjs].
Instructions on how to install Node can be found on its official website.

Once Node is installed, use a copy of this repository to install the dependencies
and start the service.

```bash
# install dependencies
$ npm install # or yarn

# start the development server
$ npm run start # or yarn start
```

### Launching the service via Docker

You can either build a docker image from the codebase (see [Dockerfile](Dockerfile))
or pull the docker image for this service directly from [Docker Hub][docker-hub].
To run it, you will need to have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed on
your machine.

```bash
# build docker image
$ docker image build -t wasm-service .

# run the service via docker
$ docker container run --name wasm-service -p 8080:8080 -d wasm-service
```

By default, the service will be available on port `8080`. You can change that
by modifying the [configuration](.config/default.yml) file.

## API reference

The `wasm-service` API includes five basic use cases to help you get started:

| Use Cases                      | Resources                                |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- |
| API Documentation              | `GET /docs` or `GET /docs-json`          |
| Upload a WASM module           | `PUT /v1/services[/{version_id}]`        |
| Execute a WASM module          | `POST /v1/services/{version_id}/execute` |
| Get the WASM execution history | `GET /v1/services/{version_id}/history`  |
| Download a WASM module         | `GET /v1/services/{version_id}`          |
| Delete a WASM module           | `DELETE /v1/services/{version_id}`       |

Additionally, the service contains a health check endpoint to verify that the
service is up and running: `GET /health`.

Find more details about the API endpoints in the [API reference](docs/DEVELOPER.md#api-reference)
section of the [Developer Guide](docs/DEVELOPER.md) and the
[Postman collection](docs/postman-collection.json).

## Change log

See the [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for all notable changes and release notes about
this project.

## Support

Please contact <fieldengineering@coherent.global> with any questions or feedback.

## Copyright and licensing

[MIT-licensed](LICENSE).

<!-- References -->

[coherent-site]: https://www.coherent.global
[user-guide]: https://docs.coherent.global/
[expressjs]: https://expressjs.com/en/starter/hello-world.html
[docker-hub]: https://hub.docker.com/r/ralflorent/wasm-service
